{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 DNSGroup Creation:\

\b0 \
To create a DNSGroup, an effort should be made (via a broadcast-request) to ensure the group doesn't exist already. This broadcast-request should be able to inform the node of all reachable groups, i.e. if I want to create "ccrg" I should first be aware of any existing "ccrg" groups AS WELL AS "soe.ucsc.edu", "inrg.soe.ucsc.edu", etc. By every group responding with its full name, I can quickly achieve a broad sense of the hierarchies available for me to join. In this example, rather than creating an autonomous, unreachable "ccrg.end" group it might be more advantageous to me to tell inrg.soe to advertise itself as reachable also for ccrg.soe and forward all the relevant requests to me :-).\
\
QUESTION: HOW DOES THIS AFFECT SCORING?\
\
After understanding the nearby "DNS topology" a node has three options: to join an existing group (and not create), to create an autonomous group, or to create a hierarchical group.\
\

\b Hierarchical Groups:\

\b0 These groups are where (presumably) the majority of discovery/resolution occurs. For a hierarchical group to be created, it must first coordinate and request permission from the group above it, which will be its "parent." This request/response mechanism serves to alert the parent group to its presence, verify there are no name-conflicts, and provides an opportunity to establish any necessary authentication/authorization (depending on the configuration of the network).\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Autonomous Groups:\

\b0 These groups are created ad-hoc and exist outside of any hierarchy (though I suppose they could also act as roots in starting their own hierarchy). The intent of autonomous groups is NOT to provide any sort of discovery or resolution outside of the group itself (either for convenience, network-policy, or security). These groups can be created by anyone, provided the group name is not currently being used for another autonomous group (i.e. there cannot exist two "spencers-adhoc-group.end" groups within range of each other simultaneously).\
\
Note that the fully-qualified name of the ad-hoc group ends in ".end" which is akin to saying that it has no parent (similar to the root of any "DNS tree"). Discovery of these groups can be done in the same way as normal if the group has child-groups. HOWEVER, it is important to note that the root suffix is NOT handled the same way as traditional DNS. In this system, the root-suffix does not refer to a particular DNS group or server, it simply indicates that there is nothing more to it. Thus, a DNS search for "spencers-adhoc-group.end" will never return a best-fit match for a name such as "ccrg.soe.ucsc.edu.end".}